---
title: "Principal Desk"
image: images/blog/Photo.jpg
---

          								Dr. Sehijpal Singh

Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana (an autonomous college under UGC Act), established in 1956, was set up under the aegis of Nankana Sahib Education Trust, devoted to the cause of rural education to meet the growing demand for technical and professional manpower and industries. We are proud that this institution has consistently maintained its tradition of excellence in the field of technical education till date. The college has been declared an autonomous college by UGC, New Delhi on 17.8.2012. The college has privilege of starting Ph.D degree under Quality Improvement Programme (QIP) by AICTE, New Delhi. The college has been accredited with ‘A’ Grade by NAAC. The college has attained ISO 9001:2008 Certification and the UG programmes are accredited by NBA under the New Outcome Based System under Washington Accord. Recently, the Institute was ranked Best Engineering College Award in Punjab State (CSR-GHRDC) & 37th position under the category of Top 75 Engineering College of Nation and First among Engineering Colleges of Punjab (Magazine Outlook). Apart from offering various Accredited graduate level B.Tech courses vis-a-vis Civil Engineering, Computer Science & Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronics & Communication Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Production Engineering, Information Technology, the institute imparts instruction in eleven Postgraduate M.Tech courses both on regular and part time basis. A dedicated research environment is provided to the researchers leading to Ph.D degree programme.

The perseverance and dedication of the entire staff is so high that it is effervescent to evolve problem- solving strategies for the betterment of the students. Numerous ongoing projects by AICTE,MHRD,CSIR, TEQIP-II/FIST etc. further enrich the faculty and the institution. The college has been granted FM radio station under Community FM Scheme by the Centre.

The college believes in strong industry institute collaboration for which the testing and consultancy cell established by the college works rigoursly by sharing its expertise with industry.

The Training and the Placement Cell is dynamic and immaculate in discharging its duties. MNCs and Indian Corporate giants like Microsoft , TCS, WIPRO , etc visit the college, and the caliber of the students leave them spellbound. The College is accredited with TCS for placement. Consequently, the placement graph has risen manifold. The proud alumni of GNDEC are serving in IAS, PCS etc. and on eminent positions in industries & also administration all across the world. PTU has been regularly awarding first position to the college in placement & academic performance amongst its all colleges. Majority of the academic and non academic work is online. Hassle free information access and quality education are the hallmark of the college.

Holistic development of the personality of each and every student is stressed upon and taken care of. Sports, cultural and other extra curricular activities nurture and hone up the talent of the students. Our students are the proud achievers of not only the academic positions but the topmost ones in sports also at the University and Inter-University level. The college has also state of the art hostel facilities for boys & girls.

The Management is highly supportive and motivator for the all-round growth & development of the students, beyond the curriculum, and maintains cordial and harmonious relationship with its employees. I take this opportunity to welcome the students from the core of my heart, and assure their parents that the college will further register tremendous progress on all fronts with its sincere, dedicated & progressive efforts.
